# Crowdfunding_ETL
## Project 2

## Data curation
<br>
In this project, we will apply the Extrat, Transform, Load pipeline (ETL) to create four tables in a PostgreSQL database from two Excel .xlsx files.<br>
The first file (<i>crowdfunding.xlsx</i>) contains 15 columns and 1001 rows including headers. The second Excel file (<i>contacts.xlsx</i>) contains the contact details of the person managing each individual project.<br>
We will curate these two files to generate four .CSV files:
<ul>a (<i>campaign.csv</i>) file that contains the fields we are interested in, including unique identifiers to the the project managers, the category of the project, and the subcategory of the project.</ul>
<ul>a (<i>category.csv</i>) file that contains the name of each category with its unique identifier</ul>
<ul>a (<i>subcategory.csv</i>) file that contains the name of each subcategory with its unique identifier</ul>
<ul>a (<i>contacts.csv</i>) file that contains the contact details of each project manager with his/her unique identifier</ul>
<br>
The steps used to curate the files can be found in the Jupyter notebook (<i>ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code_CVivensang.ipynb</i>)
<br>

## Database creation
We used QuickDBD to sketch the ERD of the tables. We have verified that, even if some companies have multiple projects, each project is still managed by a unique person. We have therefore a 1-to-1 relationshipt between the manager contact_id in the campaign table and in the contact table.<br>
insert picture here<br>
<br>
The details of the schema can be found in the (<i>crowdfunding_db_schema.sql</i>) file.<br>
We use the schema generated by QuickDBD to generate the PostgreSQL tables with their constraints. We then verify that the tables have been created correctly.<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
We then import the data from the CSV files to their respective tables and verify the results.<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
Lastly, we verify that the relationships between the tables is correct by running a query across multiple tables.<br>
We verify that the results is consistent with the information included in a sample of the row data.<br>



